


NGPF Guidelines &amp; Terms 
─UPDATED FEBRUARY 2024






Table of Contents
Overall Positioning
Teacher-first Language
Describing NGPF
The 4 C’s
Mission 2030
NGPF Phrasing
NGPF Professional Development
NGPF Curriculum &amp; Resources
Partners
Financial Terms
Diversity, Equity, &amp; Inclusion
Disabilities
Gender &amp; Sexuality
Race &amp; Ethnicity
NGPF Blog &amp; Email
General Grammar &amp; Writing
Punctuation
Writing
Numbers
Limit







Overall Positioning

TEACHER-FIRST LANGUAGE

NGPF serves and supports teachers. Messaging should reflect this. 

Frame products around a teacher perspective and how teachers and students will benefit rather than centering NGPF’s role in creation of the product.

Refer to teachers as professionals, but do not use the term “professionalizing the industry” 

Examples:

“teachers who use NGPF” or “teachers in our network” 
NOT “our teachers”

X teachers invested Y hours in NGPF PD 
NOT NGPF provided X hours of PD

Together, we can achieve Mission 2030 
NOT NGPF will achieve Mission 2030

Teachers who reach 80% of students in the U.S. have selected NGPF 
NOT Our curriculum is used by teachers who reach 80% of high school students


DESCRIBING NGPF

The leader in personal finance curriculum and professional development for over 115,000 middle and high school teachers.

More than 80% of teachers using NGPF use it as their primary curriculum

Words teachers use to describe NGPF: indispensable, one-stop shop, life-saver, life-changing, invaluable, essential, relevant, up-to-date, current, helpful, innovative, easy-to-use, comprehensive, complete


THE 4 C’S

Early branding included the 4 C’s. While not necessary to use this specific phrasing in all places, keep these defining characteristics in mind when writing about NGPF curriculum and resources:

Current: NGPF’s curriculum, PD, and blog are updated regularly to capture the constantly changing landscape for personal finance
Customizable: Built using Google Suite so teachers can make changes to meet needs of their students and easily convert to other platforms
Comprehensive Ready-to-use courses of varying lengths for high school and middle school and specialized products for Financial Algebra and economics 
Curated NGPF curriculum developers are former educators and use their expertise of what works in the classroom to find the best of what the web has to offer, pulling from more than 1,000 sources


NGPF MISSON
Our mission is to revolutionize the teaching of personal finance in all schools and to improve the financial lives of the next generation of Americans.

MISSION 2030 
By the year 2030, ALL students will take a one semester personal finance course before graduating from high school.

NGPF MISSION 2030 FUND 
Affiliated with Next Gen Personal Finance and focused on advocating for financial education in state legislatures.










NGPF Phrasing

financial capability preferred term 

financial education preferred term 

financial literacy use term sparingly with exception of Financial Literacy Month or in reference to specific language in bills, direct quotes, or as a keyword strategy

Financial Equity and Empowerment Grant / FEE Grant use full term upon first reference; do not use an ampersand (&amp;)

Guarantee States capitalize both words; not Guaranteed States or Guarantee states

guaranteed use term instead of mandated or required; use mandated or required only when writing is targeted at lawmakers

no-cost instead of free for formal writing, such as press releases; free is acceptable for the tagline and promotional materials

nonprofit not non-profit or non profit

Michael Jordan and Jordan Brand always include Jordan Brand when referring to the grant, not simply Michael Jordan

Personal Finance course capitalize when referring to a specific class
ex) Public high school students in Utah are guaranteed to take a Personal Finance course.

personal finance lowercase personal finance when referring to it generally
ex) Become certified in specific personal finance topics.

Personal Finance Specialists capitalize all words; use this general term instead of FEE Grant Specialists, Jordan Brand Grant Specialists, CAFE Grant Specialists, etc.

standalone course not stand-alone course

Teacher Account capitalize first letter in all NGPF uses because it is referring to a specific product

U.S. when abbreviating United States, use periods; not US; U.S. is the preferred term to American or America



NGPF Professional Development

Certification Courses use full term on first reference before using Cert Courses or Certs. Exception of headlines, social posts, or subject lines when characters are limited

FinCamp not Fin Camp or Fincamp

freshperson rather than freshman for NGPF Academy

On-Demand modules, not On-Demands; use full term on first reference before using modules as a standalone term

professional development use full term upon first reference, then acceptable to use PD; do not refer to PD as training

Virtual Conferences to refer to our Saturday events; always use this term to distinguish from in-person conferences

Virtual PD or Virtual Professional Development not VPD or Virtual professional development



NGPF Curriculum &amp; Resources

AI don’t use periods with the term AI — Simply write the letters out

bell ringer not bellringer or bell-ringer

Bummer! keep exclamation point at the end as part of the branding

Capitalize Course when referring to specific NGPF products: Semester Course; Full-Year Course; Middle School Course; Financial Algebra Course

curriculum a single course

curricula use when describing multiple sets of curriculum; while curriculums is not incorrect, preferable to stick with curricula for consistency

ex) NGPF offers curricula for middle school and high school. 

FinCap Friday not Fincap; term does not become plural; do not use FinCap Fridaysex) FinCap Friday is a great way to bring current events into your classroom.
View our entire FinCap Friday library.
Check out our five FinCap Friday videos on this topic.

Full-Year Course not Full Year Course (include the hyphen)

FINE PRINT capitalize all letters when referring to NGPF activities

Influenc’d always use apostrophe when referring to arcade game 

mini-unit not mini unit or MiniUnit

MOVE capitalize all letters when referring to NGPF activities

NGPF Online Bank Simulator use full term upon first reference or in a formal reference, then acceptable to use Online Bank Sim or Online Bank Simulator 

PAYBACK always written in all caps; not Payback; PAYBACK Challenge

PLAY capitalize all letters when referring to NGPF activities

STAX always written in all caps; not Stax

Question of the Day / Questions of the Day when plural, do not use Question of the Days



Partners

Canva for Education use full name upon first referral before using Canva

Desmos Classroom instead of Desmos
ex) NGPF has more than 40 Desmos Classroom Activities

Edpuzzle not EdPuzzle

Kahoot! keep the exclamation point as it is part of their brand

Nearpod not NearPod

Pear Deck not PearDeck or Peardeck; refer to Pear Deck lessons or Decks


Financial Terms

401(k) not 401k

Bitcoin always use with capital B and singular; not bitcoin or Bitcoins

Buy Now, Pay Later  all words capitalized, with a comma

ChatGPT official name of the OpenAI chatbot, not Chat GPT

homeowners insurance no apostrophe

renters insurance no apostrophe

Peer-to-peer payment apps (or P2P)

speculating in cryptocurrency (preferred) or buying cryptocurrency do not refer to investing in cryptocurrency

W-2, W-4 for tax forms, not W2 W4




Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion

avoid the term poor acceptable alternatives are low-income, below the poverty line or, when applicable, Title I school or majority free and reduced-price meals 

guardian instead of or in addition to parent when making a general reference
ex) Instead of “Share with your students’ parents what they are learning in class” use “Share with your students’ parents or guardians what they are learning in class” 

In the context of curriculum scenarios, it is ok to use terms like mom/dad/parent because it describes a specific situation.

historically excluded or historically excluded communities instead of underserved or minorities 

marginalized acceptable to use; historically excluded is preferred

most diverse districts instead of urban districts when referring to FEE grants

multilingual learners / ML / MLL / English Language Learners / ELL are all acceptable, but use these terms interchangeably throughout the text

opportunity gap use instead of achievement gap

undocumented never use illegal

use diacritics (like accent marks (é), umlauts (ë), tildes (ñ), etc) when applicable, most importantly with names

DISABILITIES

Only refer to a person’s disability when relevant to the story; being specific about what the disability is; and asking a person’s preference about language. 

If individual or group preferences can’t be determined, use a mix of identity-first language and person-first language (ex. dyslexic person and person with dyslexia)

Moreover, avoid euphemisms for disability such as differently abled, special, etc

Avoid the use of inspiring/inspirational when referring to disabled people 

Avoid use of words related to a disability with negative connotations. Find alternative phrases 
ex) instead of crazy/insane, use bizarre, strange, erratic, absurd, irrational 
Other examples of phrases to avoid include blindly following, crippled by, deaf to, etc

GENDER &amp; SEXUALITY

LGBTQ+ is the default abbreviation for referring broadly to people of multiple non-heterosexual or non-cisgender identities

pronouns Always ask for pronouns when interviewing teachers or students (ex. for Teacher Talk) and use the pronouns they request. Do not use the term preferred pronouns. When pronouns are unknown, use they/them or the person’s name.

Use broadly gender-inclusive language. Avoid restrictive binaries like &quot;boys and girls.&quot; Use terms like &quot;all genders&quot; instead of &quot;both genders&quot; etc.


RACE &amp; ETHNICITY

Black capitalize when referring to a people group; Black is preferable to African American, unless someone says they prefer that term. Avoid saying Blacks or the Blacks.

Hispanic / Latin(o/a) / Latine when possible, use these terms interchangeably throughout the text if referring to a people group generally or when an individual’s preference is unknown. Info on why we now use latine instead of latinx as the gender-neutral term.

Indigenous capitalize

white use lowercase when referring to a people group. See AP explanation here.

people of color / students of color term is ok when referring to a broad group; always use the specific racial term if wanting to describe Black, Hispanic/Latine, etc

Avoid the use of brown when referring to Hispanic/Latine populations as it is nonspecific and may be interpreted to include people of South Asian and Middle Eastern heritage. 

Avoid the term minority it is demographically inaccurate and creates a negative comparison
 
If referring to an individual, ask how they identify themselves and use that term. It may be best to use specific country terms (ex Mexican American, Nigerian American, Chinese American) instead of Latine, African, Asian, etc.



NGPF Blog &amp; Email

When hyperlinking, link a full phrase rather than here or click here to increase accessibility and visibility.

Set links to open in a new window. 

Use headers and bulleted lists as much as possible for readability

Use Header 3, bolded for headings. 

Headline capitalization - Use title case for all blog articles, with exception of Question of the Day. In title case, all major words are capitalized, while minor words are lowercase. Minor words include articles (a, an, the), coordinating conjunctions (and, or, but, …), and (short) prepositions (in, on, for, up, …). Always capitalize the first word of a title.

Use a single space after a period before the start of the next sentence, not double space

Use two spaces between sections of a blog post

When using screenshots from FinLit Fanatics on the blog (or other broadly searchable, public-facing space), blur out the names and faces of the users, unless given permission or needing to give credit to the contributor. 

Add mentions of Spanish resources when relevant

For Question of the Day posts, do not include the answer in the first line of the blog. Always include a teaser in order to incentivize clicks. 

When inserting photos, always include an alt text image description for accessibility. See detailed explanation and examples here.

If the Question of the Day answer is shown within an image, always include additional written text for accessibility. 

Include a call to action at the end, unless the text gives a clear call to action where it doesn’t make sense to add another one.

If linking to an article that is behind a paywall, use archive.is to create an accessible link.



General Grammar &amp; Writing

PUNCTUATION

Use the Oxford comma to add clarity to sentences and put equal value on all parts of the list
ex) NGPF offers PD in the form of Certification Courses, On-Demand modules, and Virtual PD.

Italicize or put in quotations titles of publications, books, movies, albums

When using a phrase as an adjective before a noun, hyphenate the phrase
ex) two-minute video; three-week course; full-year course

Do not hyphenate words ending in -ly
ex) highly regarded, widely used

WRITING

Pay attention to subject-verb agreement especially with contractions (ex. “Here are the links” instead of “Here’s the links”)

Which vs what Use which when there is a restricted range of answers. Use what more commonly when the range of answers is not restricted.

Ex) &quot;What movie did you go to see?&quot; &quot;Which shoes should I wear with this dress—my blue ones or my black ones?&quot;

Less vs fewer fewer is used to refer to number among things that are counted, as in &quot;fewer choices&quot; and &quot;fewer problems&quot;; less is used to refer to quantity or amount among things that are measured, as in &quot;less time&quot; and &quot;less effort.&quot; There are a lot of exceptions to this rule. See Merriam-Webster for further explanation.

Percent vs percentage Use percent when it involves a specific number (ex. 92 percent of NGPF teammates are happy to learn this fact). Use percentage when it's not attached to a number (a high percentage of NGPF teammates want even more grammar advice).

Spell out abbreviations upon first reference 
Ex. Next Gen Personal Finance (NGPF) partnered with Edpuzzle to produce a Financial Literacy video series. NGPF first began working with Edpuzzle…

NUMBERS

Dates eliminate st/nd/rd and superscript in dates - ex) May 1 instead of May 1st

Spell out first, second, third instead of 1st, 2nd, 3rd

Spell out numbers one through nine, and use numerals for numbers 10 and greater. This is true of ordinal numbers, as well. Spell out first to ninth, and capture 10th or greater with numerals.

Spell out a number when it begins a sentence, or find a way to change the sentence so it does not start with a number. 


LIMIT:

Use of ampersand (&amp;) except in headlines, email subject lines, proper names of organizations, and tweets when trying to save characters

Use of exclamation points Using too many exclamation marks makes them less effective. Use them sparingly and only when you need to convey excitement or declarative emotion and intent. 

Instead of relying on exclamation points to convey your urgency or excitement, consider using more vivid vocabulary. An example from Grammarly: Instead of “Make sure you finish this by tomorrow morning!” try “It’s crucial that you finish this before tomorrow morning’s deadline.”

Use of “that” if the sentence makes sense without the word that, remove it

Use of passive voice 
ex) Our curriculum enables you to vs With our curriculum, you can do x, y, z


WORDS TO AVOID: 

Delve Chat GPT frequently uses this word. While there is nothing inherently wrong with it, we want to avoid sounding AI-written. Use substitute words like &quot;explore,&quot; &quot;investigate,&quot; &quot;examine,&quot; &quot;look into,&quot; &quot;dig into,&quot; “dive into,” etc.

Utilize Never utilize anything in your articles. Always use.

Very and really Intensifiers like “really” and “very” don’t add value.